Hi friends In this video we are going to learn
how to perform inorder
Traversal on a binary search tree
So we have a binary search tree here
And the logic here is very simple
We shift the left sub tree first followed by the root
and then the right sub tree so let us see The code
to implement this and there is a function named
inorder for performing inorder traversal and we passed
the root of the tree into the function
So the case 100 here and to the left we
have 50 and 200 to the right
So first we want to check if root is null
But it is not so we Travers the left sub
tree by recursively calling the function by passing the left
child of root which is 50 here
And we pass the note 50 and it's left is
ten and it's right is 60 again We check if root
is null But here root is 50 and it is not null
so
We want to traverse the left sub tree first
So we call the function again with the left child
10 and it's left and right are null and we first
check
If root is null but it is not so
We travels the left side and we call the function
in order by passing null to the function and in the
function would be first check is if root is null
and it is null here
So we go back to the calling function and continue
execution there and the next statement execute is print root
key and 10 will be printed and next we need
to traverse the right side
So we call inorder by passing the right child which
is null here
So when the function checks if root is null that condition
is true and it comes back to this function and
it is executed completely and control comes back to calling
function and continue execution
there and the next statement executed print root key and
50 will be printed
So left sub trees visited root is visited And now we
need to visit the right sub tree
So we call the function by passing the right child of
the node 50 which is 60 and inside
The function first we check if root is null
But it is not so
We call inorder of left child which is null
here
So in the function it finds root equal to null
So it comes back and print the key which is
60 and calls the function by passing right child which is
again null and again
The function will do nothing but returned by finding root
equal to null and here
The function is execute er completely and control comes back
to calling function and it is also completed now so
control again reaches the function for 100 continue execution and
next statement executed print Key 100 will be printed
So the left sub trees travels root is Travels and now
it is time to traverse the right subject
So we call the function by passing the right child which
is 200
And please note that 200 left child is
150 right Child is 300 in the function first we
check if root is null but it is not so
We traverse the left sub tree by passing 150
to the function and in the function we check if
root is null
But it isn't so
We call inorder of left child which is null
so
This function will do nothing but return and it will
print 150 and call inorder of right child which
is again null
And since root is null it will do nothing and control
goes back to the calling function and it is also
completed So the control again reaches the function in order
of 200 we continue execution that and we already travels
the left sub tree
Now we print the key which is 200 now we
call inorder of right child which is 300
And there we first travels the left sub tree and
it is null So the function is doing nothing and we print
300 call inorder of right child which is null
again
So this function also does nothing but returned to the
calling function and it is completed here
So we go back to the calling function which is
in order of 100 it is also completed now and
we got in order traversal sequence as a
result
And if you see closely the result in sequence is
in ascending order
And that will always be like that since we have
this ordering for BST that the value of left child
will always be less than the value of parent and
the value of parent will always be less than the
value of right child
And the in order traverse of sequence is like complete
left sub tree and then the root and then the
right subtree so that in order Traversal of sequence will
always be in the increasing order.